The Ministry of Defence (Mindef), in a statement to the Straits Times on
Saturday, confirmed that the 17-year-old's application for deferment was not
approved as "he does not meet the criteria for long-term deferment from
full-time NS".

Several people in the local football fraternity The New Paper spoke to had
mixed views.

Former national goalkeeper Lionel Lewis believes that while national service is
important, relaxing the rules for athletes may incentivise greater sporting
performances.

The 35-year-old, who was the 2004 Tiger Cup's Most Valuable Player, said:
"Maybe in future, sports in Singapore would benefit if we can see it as a form
of national service. That would encourage more to perform."

The Mindef statement added that "in sports, deferments are granted only to
those who represent Singapore in international competitions like the Olympic
Games and are potential medal winners for Singapore".

Only three Singaporeans have met the deferment criteria in the past 15 years.
They are national swimmers Joseph Schooling and Quah Zheng Wen, who were given
NS deferment to compete at the 2016 Olympics and again for the 2020 Games in
Tokyo.

Sailor Maximilian Soh was the other athlete who was granted a year-long
deferment in 2007 to compete at the 2008 Beijing Olympics.

Based on the criteria, athletes from team sports such as football will have it
tough, but that has not stopped some others from also trying.

One example is 18-year-old Iskandar Radewaldt, who is playing in the Under-19
team at FC Viktoria 1889 Berlin, a fourth-tier club in Germany, though he is
still awaiting the results of his deferment application.

His father Franco, founder of the German Football Academy in Singapore, said:
"People think the meaning of national service is to create bonds and
camaraderie, but footballers are already practising all those values, and
serving with their sport is better because the country is gaining reputation."

Aidil Sharin, coach of Singapore Premier League side Home United, said NS is
something every Singapore male will have to go through.

He said: "In our country, we still have to serve, no matter what, this is our
journey...

"As footballers, two years in NS and even one year out and you can really
become rusty, it's a big difference. Of course, it's not easy."

Ben's father Harvey, who told ST that they will be submitting an appeal, said
that with Ben, the question is when he will serve.

They hope that he is given the opportunity to pursue his dream, make Singapore
and Singapore football proud.

His older son has already served NS and so will Ben and his younger boy.
